The motor circuit
The motor circuit is implemented in the opening and closing of the doors and curtains.A driver chip is used (The L293D chip)
to control the rotation of the the motor depending on the control signals received from the microcontroller.
In the event a forward rotation is is to be performed, bit 0 receives a high while bit one receives a low. In the event 
a reverse rotation is needed, bit 0 receives a low while bit 1 receives a high. In the event no rotation is required both inputs
are given a low signal or both inputs are given a high signal. For demontration purposes, a 12V Dc motor is used that will be rotating at a
a contant speed. 


The Display 
The Display involves the use of a LCD screen to display the status of events in the system.  The LM016L is used in this case. It consists of a 
16x2 character display that is connected to the microcontroller. The LCD is connected to the Microcontroller in 8 bit mode and therefore
8 pins of the microcontroller are used to transfer data to be displayed and another 3 pins are used to send the control signals.
The special commands used for the LCD for functions like initialization and clearing of the screen were obtained from the datasheet 
of the LCD and implemented in the code.

The Motion Sensor
Due to the limitations of simulations and budgetary constraints, The motion sensor was not included in the simulations.
However, the PIR(Passive Infrared Sensor) was identified for use in the event of the system implementation. Since it is a passive sensor
it does not waste energy but reads changes in the surrounding area. Also, compared to the other types of sensors e.g the Microwave and Ultrasonic sensors,
the PIR sensor proved to be much cheaper thus saving cost.

The PIR sensor works with the principle of measuring IR light radiating from objects in its view. Since all objects above absolute zero temperature emit heat energy in the 
form of heat energy, this can be detected by electronic devices since they travel at infrared wavelengths. Thus in the event a person moves about this reading increases from 
that of room temperature to that of body temperature to trigger that a person is present. 



 